.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\"
.TH ARES_REINIT 3 "12 November 2023"
.SH NAME
ares_reinit \- ReInitialize a resolver channel from system configuration.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <ares.h>

int ares_reinit(ares_channel_t *\fIchannel\fP)
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBares_reinit(3)\fP function re-reads the system configuration and safely
applies the configuration to the existing channel.  System configuration will
never override user-provided settings such as provided via
\fBares_init_options(3)\fP or \fBares_set_servers(3)\fP.

Any existing queries will be automatically requeued if the server they are
currently assigned to is removed from the system configuration.

It is important to remember that c-ares is not currently thread-aware and this
function cannot be called while any other c-ares functions are being called.
This function may also cause additional file descriptors to be created if
server configuration has changed, so care needs to be taken to ensure any
event loop is updated with new file descriptors.

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fIares_reinit(3)\fP can return any of the following values:
.TP 14
.B ARES_SUCCESS
Initialization succeeded.
.TP 14
.B ARES_EFILE
A configuration file could not be read.
.TP 14
.B ARES_ENOMEM
The process's available memory was exhausted.

.SH AVAILABILITY
This function was first introduced in c-ares version 1.22.0.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ares_init (3),
.BR ares_init_options (3),
.BR ares_destroy (3),
.BR ares_dup (3),
.BR ares_library_init (3),
.BR ares_set_servers (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (C) 2023 The c-ares project and its members.
